xserver-xorg xserver-xorg-video-fbdev gvfs-backends xfonts-base xinit bubblewrap dbus-x11 dictionaries-common evolution-data-server 
evolution-data-server-common gcr geoclue-2.0 gir1.2-accountsservice-1.0 gir1.2-atspi-2.0 gir1.2-gck-1 gir1.2-gcr-3 gir1.2-gdesktopenums-3.0 
gir1.2-gdm-1.0 gir1.2-geoclue-2.0 gir1.2-gnomebluetooth-1.0 gir1.2-gnomedesktop-3.0 gir1.2-graphene-1.0 gir1.2-gweather-3.0 gir1.2-ibus-1.0 
gir1.2-json-1.0 gir1.2-mutter-7 gir1.2-nm-1.0 gir1.2-nma-1.0 gir1.2-polkit-1.0 gir1.2-rsvg-2.0 gir1.2-soup-2.4 gir1.2-upowerglib-1.0 gjs 
gnome-desktop3-data gnome-keyring gnome-session-bin gnome-session-common gnome-settings-daemon gnome-settings-daemon-common gnome-shell 
gnome-shell-common hunspell-en-us libaccountsservice0 libaspell15 libcamel-1.2-62 libebackend-1.2-10 libebook-1.2-20 libebook-contacts-1.2-3 
libecal-2.0-1 libedata-book-1.2-26 libedata-cal-2.0-1 libedataserver-1.2-25 libedataserverui-1.2-2 libenchant-2-2 libfontenc1 libgck-1-0 
libgcr-base-3-1 libgcr-ui-3-1 libgdata-common libgdata22 libgdm1 libgeoclue-2-0 libgeocode-glib0 libgjs0g libgnome-autoar-0-0 libgnome-bluetooth13 
libgnome-desktop-3-19 libgoa-1.0-0b libgoa-1.0-common libgraphene-1.0-0 libgweather-3-16 libgweather-common libibus-1.0-5 libical3 libimobiledevice6 
libjavascriptcoregtk-4.0-18 libmutter-7-0 libnma0 libphonenumber8 libplist3 libprotobuf23 libtext-iconv-perl libunwind8 libupower-glib3 libusbmuxd6 
libwebkit2gtk-4.0-37 libxaw7 libxfont2 libxkbfile1 libxmu6 libxmuu1 libxtst6 mutter mutter-common p11-kit p11-kit-modules pinentry-gnome3 upower 
x11-xkb-utils x11-xserver-utils xdg-dbus-proxy xserver-common xwayland zenity zenity-common gnome-session gdm3 terminator gnome-control-center 
alsa-base anacron at-spi2-core dmz-cursor-theme fonts-freefont-ttf fonts-urw-base35 foomatic-db-compressed-ppds genisoimage ghostscript ghostscript-x 
gir1.2-goa-1.0 gir1.2-snapd-1 gnome-menus gnome-shell-extension-appindicator gnome-shell-extension-desktop-icons inputattach libasound2-plugins 
libatk-adaptor libcairo-gobject-perl libcairo-perl libcue2 libdee-1.0-4 libexempi8 libexiv2-27 libextutils-depends-perl libextutils-pkgconfig-perl 
libgexiv2-2 libglib-object-introspection-perl libglib-perl libglu1-mesa libgs9 libgs9-common libgsf-1-114 libgsf-1-common libgtk3-perl libgxps2 
libidn11 libijs-0.35 libjbig2dec0 libnautilus-extension1a libnotify-bin libpaper1 libpoppler-glib8 libpulsedsp libsasl2-modules libspeexdsp1 
libtotem-plparser-common libtotem-plparser18 libtracker-control-2.0-0 libtracker-miner-2.0-0 libtracker-sparql-2.0-0 libu2f-udev 
libunity-protocol-private0 libunity-scopes-json-def-desktop libunity9 libxxf86dga1 libyelp0 linux-sound-base nautilus nautilus-data openprinting-ppds 
poppler-data printer-driver-pnm2ppa pulseaudio pulseaudio-utils python3-click python3-colorama python3-dateutil python3-debconf python3-debian 
python3-distupgrade python3-update-manager python3-xkit python3-yaml software-properties-gtk spice-vdagent tracker tracker-extract tracker-miner-fs 
update-manager update-manager-core update-notifier update-notifier-common x11-apps x11-session-utils x11-utils xdg-desktop-portal xdg-user-dirs 
xdg-user-dirs-gtk xinput xorg xorg-docs-core yaru-theme-gnome-shell yelp yelp-xsl pulseaudio-module-bluetooth pavucontrol gnome-shell-extension-trash 
cups system-config-printer-gnome ubuntu-desktop-minimal ubuntu-session ubuntu-settings ubuntu-business-defaults gconf2 gdebi
